<!--
Copyright 2015 JUnit Helper Contributors

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# JUnit Helper Development Guidelines

This is a work in progress page, hopefully that will be built as we progress with the project. For now, holds some
scraps of information.

## Git Repository Layout

The project is laid out as a single Git repository with Maven multi-module project. All SCM (Git) and Build (Maven)
operations are executed at the parent project directory.

### Branches & (protected) branches

A full branching strategy / plan is in the works, for now these are some ideas. Basic ideas include:

* All development happens on *public* feature or bugfix branches
* Use local branches and squash commits to *public* branches
* Release trains run on their own branches.

#### master

This is a *protected* branch; so direct commits to this branch are not possible, neither is it possible to merge anything
to this branch directly without certain checks, currently:

* Clean merge (without conflicts)
* Travis CI build pass on the other branch (or pull request)

We still have to clarify how the interaction between `master` and `release` branches will work.

#### gh-pages

This is of course the special GitHub pages **orphan** branch from which we serve this website. All the content of this
branch is generated by maven. If static files like `.gitignore` or `CNAME` are required; they should be placed in the
`src/site/resources` folder of the regular branch from which the site is generated.

**TODO: On Site Generation**

* Automate site generation / deployment
* Think about what to do if we want to support multi-version sites (major versions).

#### release/* branches

* **Branch Off From:** `master` if on the same *Major* version; or the highest `release/*` branch of the same *Major* version.
* **Merge Back Into:** `master` only if on the same *Major* version.
* **Lifetime:** Stays forever
* **Protected:** Yes (basic). May not need to require Status Checks.

This is a branch from which release are created. The branch is created when we are about ready to create a new *Minor*
release. Only a very few changes (like version update, site update, blocker fixes) are expected on this branch between
the time the branch is created and the first release in that *Major/Minor* series is created. The release is of course
tagged (and the tag should be cryptographically signed, see `-s` or `-u <key>` flags.

After the release is completed, the content should be merged back into `master`, unless master has moved on to the next 
*Major*. If master has moved on, selective / appropriate fixes need to be cherry picked into a feature / bug fix branch
and merged into `master` and any other appropriate `release/*` branch.  

If a *Patch* release is required on that *Major/Minor*, changes can be made on the branch or on a `feature/*` or
`bugfix/*` branch; release created and tagged. After the release the changes are to be merged back to `master` (using
the same rules as above) and any other `release/*` branch in the higher *Minor* branches in the same or higher *Major*
versions.

#### feature/* and bugfix/* branches

* **Branch Off From:** `master` or `release/*`
* **Merge Back Into:** `master` or `release/*` where branched from; or multiple. *No FF*
* **Lifetime:** Time to develop the feature, may involve one or more merges back into the source.
* **Protected:** No

This is a branch to develop a single (or multiple related) feature(s) or bug fix(es); and once everything is done the
contents are merged back into where we started from or into multiple branches. Once all done, feel free to delete the
branch.

**Note:** Since this branch is expected to be deleted at some point, make sure the merge from this branch to `master` or
one or more `release/*` branches is done without a Fast Forward (`git merge --no-ff`).

### Git Settings

The following minimal settings are required, in global, system or local configs:

* user.name
* user.email

The following are recommended (change values per your preference):

* core.editor=vi
* core.repositoryformatversion=0
* core.filemode=true
* core.logallrefupdates=true

The following is required / will be added if using the Travis CI client

* travis.slug=deventropy/junit-helper

### Git Hooks (local)

T.B.D.
<!-- TODO Complete-->

### Git Shorthands

* Backup Repository: `git bundle create <backup_folder>/junit-helper-<timestamp>.git --all`
* Show older commits: `git log --pretty=format:"%h %cn"` or `git log --pretty=fuller`
* Squash last n commits: `git rebase -i HEAD~2`
* Merging a branch (non-fast forward): `git checkout <destin>` && `git merge --no-ff <branch-to-merge>`
* Remove a public branch: `git branch -d <branch-to-delete>` && `git push origin --delete <branchName>` OR `git push origin :<branchName>`
* Merging a pull request cheat sheet: <https://gist.github.com/bindul/0f82097018946a4f3028>
* Show Remotes: `git remote -v`
* Change Remote: `git remote set-url <remote-name> <remote-url>`
* Create an orphan branch: `git checkout --orphan <branch_name>`


## Version Numbers

The project aims to adhere to [Semantic Versioning 2.0.0](http://semver.org/) Guidelines; with the following exceptions/
notes:

* Patch Version, as defined by Semver (`Z (x.y.Z | x > 0)`) is omitted if it is 0.
* Pre-release versions (also tracked as [Milestones in the issue management](https://github.com/deventropy/junit-helper/milestones))
	use the `-alpha.n` and `-beta.n` identifiers in the pre-release-candidate stages; and `-rc.n` identifiers for release
	candidates, when required.

At this time, a shared version number is used for the entire project; so all the `junit-helper-*` modules share the same
version as the parent. And releases happen at the parent `junit-helper` module to include the child modules. This also
means that after the first public API release (expected to be 1.0), a module may have a release with its version number
incremented without *ANY* changes the module at all, if the release was caused due to changes / fixes in another module(s). 

## Code Guidelines

Some basic coding guidelines (for Java and XML files):

* Follow the checkstyle configuration at <https://raw.githubusercontent.com/deventropy/deventropy-parent/master/deventropy-cq-config/src/main/resources/deventropy/code-quality/checkstyle/deventropy-checkstyle.xml>
** As much as possible, avoid checkstyle warnings
* `Tab`s are **OK**. In fact, I kind of like tabs (keeps files prettier), and I run with `1 TAB == 4 CHARS`
* Line length is <= 120 characters.
* Mostly use 'Eclipse' built in formatter

### Copyright Notice

All source files in the project should have the following copyright and license statement within the appropriate file
types comment section.

```
Copyright <year> Development Entropy (deventropy.org) Contributors

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
```

## Travis Setup

The project uses an almost generic Travis Setup, but we said *almost*. So, the exceptions are:

### Using JFrog OSS Snapshot Repository

We use JFrog OSS Artifactory Instance as our Maven repository, so for builds relying on snapshots of other Deventropy
parents, we are out of luck on default Travis CI settings, as it only checks Central, Sonatype OSS, Apache and
Codehaus (does not exist any more) repositories. The build fails with errors such as:

```
[ERROR] The build could not read 1 project -> [Help 1]
[ERROR]   
[ERROR]   The project org.deventropy.junit-helper:junit-helper:0.1-SNAPSHOT (/home/travis/build/deventropy/junit-helper/pom.xml) has 1 error
[ERROR]     Non-resolvable parent POM: Could not transfer artifact org.deventropy.parent:deventropy-parent:pom:1.0-SNAPSHOT from/to
```

To get around the problem, Google was to our aid and with ideas from a Coderwall blog on
[Deploying maven artifacts from Travis](https://coderwall.com/p/9b_lfq), we proceeded as follows:

1. Set up a branch [travis](https://github.com/deventropy/deventropy-parent/tree/travis) on the parent project.
1. On that branch create a [Maven Settings File](https://github.com/deventropy/deventropy-parent/blob/travis/travis-mvn-settings.xml) with:
	* An active profile, and the profile has all the repositories and plugin repositories we want to check.
1. Define a remote repository with the settings variable as `DENT_TRAVIS_MVN_SETTINGS_REPO` (either in the Travis CI settings UI or as a Global Environment variable in `.travis.yml`).
1. Update `.travis.yml` of the project to have a `before_install` step, which essentially checks out the `travis` branch
	mentioned above into a directory under `target`
	* `before_install: "git clone -b travis ${DENT_TRAVIS_MVN_SETTINGS_REPO} target/travis"`
1. Explicitly set the `install` and `script` entries in `.travis.yml` to use the explicit `settings` file:
	* `"mvn <whatever...> -B --settings target/travis/travis-mvn-settings.xml"`

### Build Matrix

We use a simple build matrix with JDKs:

* Oracle JDK 7 (`oraclejdk7`)
* Oracle JDK 8 (`oraclejdk8`)

There is a mechanism to use JDK 9 EA versions in Travis, but we have not felt the need to use it yet.

### Travis Cache

To speed up build (and savis the nice folks at Travis some network bandwidth), we cache our local Maven repository
(`$HOME/.m2/repository`). However, without the just built artifacts, so there is a `before_cache` stage to remove
files from our group ID: `rm -rf $HOME/.m2/repository/org/deventropy/junit-helper`.

## Eclipse Setup

Additional Eclipse setup steps:

### Code Template

Set up `Java > Code Style > Code Templates > Comments > Files` to have the following:

```
/* 
 * Copyright ${year} Development Entropy (deventropy.org) Contributors
 * 
 * Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
 * you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
 * You may obtain a copy of the License at
 * 
 *  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
 * 
 * Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
 * distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
 * WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
 * See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
 * limitations under the License.
 */
```

### Checkstyle Plug-in

If you have the checkstyle plug-in installed set it up to have an additional `Global Configuration` to point to the
Checkstyle configuration XML file:

* Either, as a `Remote` configuration file pointing to the URL in Code Guidelines above
* Or, if you have the `deventropy-parent` or `deventropy-cq-config` project checked out; as a `Project Relative` configuration.

In both cases, define the `checkstyle.header.file` under `Additional Properties` to point to the `license-header.txt`
file in the same location.

## Build / Maven Setup

### Maven Settings

T.B.D. 
<!-- TODO Complete-->

### Code Signing Settings

T.B.D.
<!-- TODO Complete-->

### GPG Signing Settings

T.B.D.
<!-- TODO Complete-->

### Maven shortcuts

* To delete stage folder and stage site: `OD=<site-directory> && rm -rf $OD/* && mvn clean verify site:site site:stage -DstagingDirectory=$OD`

## Issue Management

Though not as good as a JIRA instance, we have GitHub issues to work with. Since we are using the same issue system for
all the modules, here are a few guidelines:

* Try and have properly labeled `component:*` issues to know where an issue belongs.
* For anything that will be fixed, have a proper `milestone` label.
* For any commit to a *public* branch, that is related to an open issue, make sure to refer the issue in the commit
	message.